# A 3rd-Party Password Reset Feature for D-Star Registration Logons

This Password Reset feature is intended as an add-on to the ICOM G2/G3 Registration Page logon
procedure. It accesses the gateway’s Postgres database as read-only in order to verify the requestor’s
callsign indeed has an account on the given gateway and to verify the requestor knows the email
address on file for that callsign. Once the email with link has been received and the requestor clicks the
link, a web page allows entry of the new password.

Anti-SQL Injection techniques are employed, and the actual updating of the password is done by the
program /dstar/tools/dstarpasswd running under root (using an authorized password reset program as
opposed to writing code to update the registration database tables directly). This is accomplished by
having the web page queue the reset request in a small Postgres table and having cron periodically
launch a php script running under root to check that table and invoke the above program.

A config file allows users to specify their Gateway’s callsign (in the examples below, W6CX), whether the
reset feature should run under SSL, plus email details. The scripts assume PHPMailer has been installed
on the gateway system. It is recommended to update the Registration logon page at
/opt/products/dstar/D-STAR/TopMenu.jsp to provide a “Forgot your password” link to this feature. For
example:



Here the user enters callsign and email.


The callsign is looked up to ensure it has an account on this gateway and the email address is on file for
that callsign (thus eliminating most bogus reset requests), and the user is told to await the email.


Here’s an example of the email with link. Note the link expires in one hour.


The new password is required, but virtually no editing or duplicate entry is provided, due to the ease of
doing another reset.


At this point, the reset request is queued. It is recommended to have cron run the reset script once
each second. It provides no measurable load on the system.


The user is sent a confirmation email when reset is complete.
